do you want to outrank Giant competitors
with SEO then stay tuned
[Music]
hey I'm Sam Dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host the top 100 B2B
marketing podcast business growth show
if you haven't yet check out my weekly
email where I share actual website and
marketing tips useful podcasts goodies
resources and more kicking off your week
with a bang give it a shot over at
businessgrowth dot email so often when
I'm speaking to prospects clients
customers they tell me usually in their
industry there's a few giant competitors
they think they're never going to be
when it comes to organic search and SEO
well it's time to turn that around I'm
going to share five actionable tips you
can put into play to outrank huge
competitors with SEO
foreign
is your keyword targeting so the Search
terms that you want to organically rank
on page one of Google let me give you a
scenario let's pretend you're an Erp
provider if you're going after really
generic super competitive terms like Erp
company Erp consultancy Erp agency the
Giants in your industry are probably
going to dominate the top spots and
unless you've got tons of resource and
budget it ain't going to happen anytime
soon so let's drill down get more Niche
get more specific focus on the
industries that you really want to tap
into so let's pretend you're focus is
Erp for the manufacturing industry and
let's utilize that in your keyword
targeting you can look at things like
Erp for manufacturing companies best
Manufacturing Company Erp Erp solutions
for manufacturers those specific Niche
keywords become long tail they mean you
can rank faster because they're more
Niche more targeted and also means that
people that search that are probably
going to have higher buying intent and
are going to be more relevant that come
through your website as leads rather
than just being for any Erp solution or
provider so get Niche get specific and
get higher quality leads with your
keyword targeting
thank you
number two is your website content so
once you've nailed down the target
keywords that you want to rank for they
might be a mix of short tell and longer
tell specific Search terms like we
talked about you need to look at your
website and more importantly the content
so you want to have dedicated Pages for
each of the main Services each of the
main industries that you work with each
of your main products and offerings and
even the locations you serve so we can
basically serve up the most relevant
content on Google and give people
exactly what they're looking for so a
great way to provide super helpful
actionable content that's going to rank
is literally type in one of the keywords
you want to rank for on Google so for
example if we wanted to rank for Erp for
manufacturing companies if we go back to
that example we could search on Google
we could see what companies are ranking
organically in the non-paid listings for
the top three or four positions let's
look at each of their content perhaps
they've got a thousand or so words maybe
they've got an infographic maybe they've
got a video then you you want to look at
ways that you can one up each of these
competitors piece of content maybe it's
adding more actionable copy maybe you
make your content more helpful more
useful maybe you add some unique data
and the industry some unique stats maybe
you provide a better infographic maybe
provide a walkthrough video maybe you
add a customer testimonial then you add
a podcast dedicated with a YouTube and
audio links so you're looking for a
bunch of ways you can run up it maybe
you've got some frequently asked
questions that prospects often ask you
around that solution and maybe you're
handling it that common objections you
get on sales calls in the copy so you're
literally looking for all these points
that you can one up their content to
make it a super useful actionable for
customers prospects that land on the
page
help it rank on Google because it's
going to be super relevant and high
quality and at the end of course have
that social proof now those call to
actions to make it easy if people want
to reach out and speak to your sales
team
coming in at number three we've got
technical SEO so we've talked about
content now moving it over to the
technical side of things this covers a
bunch of things such as page speed so
making sure your website loads super
fast you can use a tool called Google
page feed insights to check your speed
and get actual tips to improve it so it
could be things like Animations big
images videos all these things that
could be slowing down your site making
sure your website works smoothly on
mobile tablet and PC screen sizes having
a dedicated mobile view and desktop view
can help you quite a lot following best
practices for meta titles and
descriptions so the things that show in
the Google search results
following things like image alt tags
heading tags H1s H2S for your title tags
on your site making sure you've got SEO
friendly URLs so your links read
friendly when they're getting picked up
by the search engines doing all the best
practices to make sure your site is
technically sound again it's going to be
a big help many companies don't do this
properly
at number four we've got become the
go-to resource for your industry so the
advantage smaller companies have over
massive large-scale corporates is they
can make decisions much faster there's
way less red tape you don't have to go
through really long drawn out approval
processes you can make stuff happen fast
so this is really useful when it comes
to putting out great content so you can
consider things like starting your own
industry relevant podcast maybe starting
a YouTube series maybe a webinar maybe
another video series building out a
really useful blog article section on
your website all of which can go under a
resource or guide or whatever you want
to call it section on your website each
piece can have its own dedicated page so
it's all super searchable content with
the videos maybe the podcast the article
a written summary all of which can
answer common questions that you get
from prospects can provide tips and
tricks and can really build up Demand on
Google so when someone searches for any
of these queries any of these tips any
of these questions your website can
start to rank also it's Evergreen
content so it's not just a one and done
it's something that can keep bringing
inbound can keep being found for the
long term organically on Google
and last but not least that number five
we've got building backlinks so even if
you've put out some great content if the
keywords are trying to rank are super
competitive and all the competitors have
got decent links going to their Pages
chances are you might not rank so you
might want to consider getting some
quality backlinks to those pages a few
ways you can do so uh you can partner
with existing clients prospects or
contacts they've got established
websites they've got some Authority you
can create some media together maybe you
create a video series a podcast blog
series
do something of value to your audience
that there's real demand for put it out
there publish a page on each other's
sites and there you can give each other
a backlink another way is you can guest
on podcasts that are relevant to your
target audience so ours might be
marketing yours might be an attack or
manufacturing or Finance space whatever
the heck you operate in reach out to
podcasts hosts get onto their show and
then when they put out the podcast on an
article page on their website ask for a
link back to your site well thirdly you
can work with an agency just like ours
so a company like web choice that has a
network of reputable industry relevant
sites where we can build links we can
publish quality content and we can get
your website ranking organically on
Google and there you have it I hope
these five tips to outrank the Giants in
your industry with SEO have been of use
as always if you're on the audio podcast
a quick rating or review is much
appreciated on YouTube subscribe goes a
really long way and with that I should
catch you on the next one cheers